---
title: 'Papers and books to be read'
date: 2024-02-01
permalink: /posts/2024/02/blog-project-002/
author_profile: true
tags:
  - FSPM
---

This is a list of papers and books selected to be read.

From:
  * [Greenlab Courses](https://greenlab.cirad.fr/GLUVED/html/index.html)
  * To be updated.

**Journal: Annals of botany**

* Barthélémy, Daniel, and Yves Caraglio. "Plant architecture: a dynamic, multilevel and comprehensive approach to plant form, structure and ontogeny." Annals of botany 99.3 (2007): 375-407, [https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcl260](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcl260)



**Books**

* Barthélémy, D., Caraglio, Y., Sabatier, S. 2009. Crown architecture of valuable broadleaved species. In Spiecker H., Hein S., Makkonen-Spiecker K., Thies M. (Eds). Valuable broadleaved forests in Europe. Leiden: Brill (European Forest Institute Research Reports, vol. 22).

* Each architectural model is defined by a particular combination of these simple morphological features on the main stem and main branches, and named after a well-known botanist. Although the number of these combinations is theoretically very high, there are apparently only 23 architectural models found in nature. Each of these models applies equally to arborescent or herbaceous plants, from tropical or temperate regions, and which can belong to closely related or distant taxa. Detailed information on each architectural model can be found in Hallé & Oldeman (1970) or Hallé et al. (1978).
  * Hallé, F., Oldemann, R.A.A. 1970. Essai sur l'architecture et la dynamique de croissance des arbres tropicaux. Paris: Masson.
  * Hallé, F., Oldemann, R.A.A., Tomlinson, P.B. 1978. Tropical trees and forests. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.