---
title: 'Paper Reading: (2015) SimpleTree —An Efficient Open Source Tool to Build Tree Models from TLS Clouds'
date: 2024-03-05
permalink: /posts/2024/02/blog-paper-003/
author_profile: true
tags:
  - Point Cloud
  - TLS
  - QSM
  - Forest
---

Original paper: Hackenberg, Jan, et al. "SimpleTree—an efficient open source tool to build tree models from TLS clouds." Forests 6.11 (2015): 4245-4294. [https://doi.org/10.3390/f6114245](https://doi.org/10.3390/f6114245)

This is a record of the reading process, aimed at personal learning, reading and writing practicing.

- [1 Introduction](#1-introduction)
  - [1.1 Related Work](#11-related-work)
    - [1.1.1 Methods in Computational Forestry producing QSMs of the Branching Structure](#111-methods-in-computational-forestry-producing-qsms-of-the-branching-structure)
    - [1.1.2 Methods in Computer Vision producing QSMs of the Branching Structure](#112-methods-in-computer-vision-producing-qsms-of-the-branching-structure)
    - [1.1.3 Further Open Source Tree Modelling Software and Point Cloud Processing Libraries](#113-further-open-source-tree-modelling-software-and-point-cloud-processing-libraries)
    - [1.2 Relevance of the Presented Work in the State of the Art](#12-relevance-of-the-presented-work-in-the-state-of-the-art)
  - [1.3 Structure of the Manuscript](#13-structure-of-the-manuscript)
- [2 Software—SimpleTree](#2-softwaresimpletree)
  - [2.1 Filter and Clustering Routines](#21-filter-and-clustering-routines)
  - [2.2 Tree Modeling](#22-tree-modeling)
  - [2.3 Point Cloud Processing](#23-point-cloud-processing)
  - [2.4 Output Data](#24-output-data)
- [3 Software—Comparison Method Raumonen et al. (2013)](#3-softwarecomparison-method-raumonen-et-al-2013)
- [4  Data Sets](#4--data-sets)
- [5 Results](#5-results)
- [6 Discussion](#6-discussion)
  - [6.1 The Benefit of Open Source](#61-the-benefit-of-open-source)
  - [6.2 The Benefit of QSMs](#62-the-benefit-of-qsms)
- [7 Outlook](#7-outlook)
- [8 Conclusion](#8-conclusion)

Abstract
------

* An open source tool named SimpleTree, capable of modelling highly accurate cylindrical tree models from terrestrial laser scan point clouds, is presented and evaluated.
* All important functionalities, accessible in the software via buttons and dialogues, are described including the explanation of all necessary input parameters.


## 1 Introduction

>The proposed approach results in geometrical models **describing the complete above-ground woody tree components in an hierarchical order**. Such models can be referred to as **Quantitative Structure Models (QSMs)**. [8–11]

>The SimpleTree method described here produces **topologically ordered cylinder parameters (size, orientation)** for all branches resolved by the LiDAR data, which can be of the order of thousands of branches per tree.

### 1.1 Related Work

>Yao et al. [25] predict AGB on plot level utilizing the Diameter at Breast Height (DBH) as an input variable for the following allometric equation:

$$ AGB = a \times DBH^b \quad (1) $$

### 1.1.1 Methods in Computational Forestry producing QSMs of the Branching Structure
