---
title: 'Paper Reading: (2021) Integrating terrestrial laser scanning with functional–structural plant models to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes of forest communities-2'
date: 2024-03-14
permalink: /posts/2024/03/blog-paper-001-2/
author_profile: true
tags:
  - Review
  - Point Cloud
  - TLS
  - FSPM
  - Forest
---

Original paper: O’Sullivan, Hannah, et al. "Integrating terrestrial laser scanning with functional–structural plant models to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes of forest communities." Annals of Botany 128.6 (2021): 663-684. [https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcab120](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcab120)

This is a record of the reading process, aimed at personal learning, reading and writing practicing.

- [4 The realm of TLS](#4-the-realm-oftls)
  - [4.1 Species identification](#41-species-identification)
  - [4.2 TLS in studies of vegetation dynamics](#42-tls-in-studies-of-vegetation-dynamics)
  - [4.3 Using TLS to parameterize FSPMs](#43-using-tls-to-parameterizefspms)
- [5 Discussion](#5-discussion)
- [6 Outlook and Conclusions](#6-outlook-and-conclusions)

## 4 The realm of TLS

>In recent years, TLS has emerged as a revolutionary tool for measuring above-ground 3-D tree architecture and forest structure (Malhi et al., 2018; Disney, 2019; Calders et al., 2020).

>Despite the promises and potential, the application of TLS to questions in forest ecology and evolution is still in its early days.

>In a recent review, Malhi et al. (2018) outline a number of areas suitable for testing and extending ecological theory on tree form and function in the context of TLS, including **seed dispersal, structural mechanics and resource distribution**.

* Malhi, Yadvinder, et al. "New perspectives on the ecology of tree structure and tree communities through terrestrial laser scanning." Interface Focus 8.2 (2018): 20170052. [http://doi.org/10.1098/rsfs.2017.0052](http://doi.org/10.1098/rsfs.2017.0052)

>It is also noteworthy that allometric models can be refined towards more flexible functional models using the type of data that is available from TLS (Kaitaniemi et al., 2020; Kaitaniemi and Lintunen, 2021).

>* Alternatively, **quantitative structural models (QSMs)**, which are a hierarchical collection of cylinders (Fig. 4), can be used to compute an array of detailed structural tree metrics, including AGB.
>* There are published and freely available methods to reconstruct QSMs from TLS data; these include:
    >* **TreeQSM** (Raumonen et  al., 2013; Calders et  al., 2015a; Raumonen, 2020), 
    >* **SimpleTree** (Hackenberg et  al., 2015), **SimpleTree** is currently known as **SimpleForest** and it is a plugin for **CompuTree**.
    >* **AdTree** (Du et  al., 2019) and **CompuTree** (Piboule et  al., 2013).

>Differentiating between individual trees remains a key challenge when working with scans containing multiple trees.

>There are at least two open-source software options available that tackle this issue in different ways. 
>* Firstly there is **treeseg (Burt et al., 2018) and 3dforest (Trochta et al., 2017)**, both developed with **C++**, which use a number of standard point cloud processing techniques; 
>* and secondly there is **LidR (Roussel et al., 2020)**, written in the **R** environment, intended for use with airborne LiDAR, but easily applied to TLS.
>* However, **due to the popularity of the R language in biological sciences compared with C++**, **LidR** has the added benefit of accessibility.

* Burt, A., M. Disney, and K. Calders. "Extracting individual trees from lidar point clouds using treeseg, Methods Ecol. Evol., 10, 438–445." (2019). [https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13121](https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13121)
* Trochta, Jan, et al. "3D Forest: An application for descriptions of three-dimensional forest structures using terrestrial LiDAR." PloS one 12.5 (2017): e0176871. [https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0176871](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0176871)
* Roussel, Jean-Romain, et al. "lidR: An R package for analysis of Airborne Laser Scanning (ALS) data." Remote Sensing of Environment 251 (2020): 112061. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2020.112061](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2020.112061)

>Methods for separating leaf and wood fall largely into two groups: **geometric-based separation** and **intensity-based separation**.
>* **Intensity-based methods**: does not perform well in general, may still be useful for classification as one of the information sources (X. Zhu et al., 2018).
>* **Geometry-based methods**: many approaches available
    >* **TLSeparation** is an open-source Python library offering custom workflows and automated scripts (Vicari et al., 2019). 
    >* This software performs with a 90 % accuracy for separating leaf and wood in field TLS data, which is a beneficial step towards efficient TLS data processing of large forest scans.
    >* There are other geometric-based published methods with similar accuracies (Wang et al., 2018, 2020; Moorthy et al., 2020).

### 4.1 Species identification

>Any ability to automatically identify species across large areas would greatly improve the potential to apply FSPMs to larger ecological questions.
>* Othmani et al. (2013) **used bark texture** to identify five species from a sample size of 75 individuals using a random forest classification with an accuracy of 85 %.
>* Barmpoutis et al. (2018) classified four species of Caatinga trees using the fast-marching method for tree skeletonization, subsequently classifying skeletons with descriptors that account for **a combination of dynamic, appearance and noise parameters**.[the sample size (15 individual trees) is too low]
>* Using QSMs to obtain structural features and machine learning for classification.
    >* Åkerblom et al. (2017) obtained an average classification accuracy of >93 % in a single-species forest plot, with lower accuracy found in mixed-species plots.
    >* A more recent study by Terryn et al. (2020) expanded on this work.
    >* The authors find that the greatest factor contributing to classification success is **canopy class**.

### 4.2 TLS in studies of vegetation dynamics

>TLS + QSM: gain new understanding of forest dynamics and structure.
>* Seidel et al. (2011) showed how crown plasticity in terms of crown asymmetry is used by trees to avoid competition.
>* Van der Zee et al. (2021) introduced a novel method of quantifying the phenomenon of ‘crown-shyness’ by applying a 3-D surface complementarity metric to TLS data.
>* Beyer et al. (2021) investigated whether the branches along tree trunks exhibit a similar constant divergence angle.
>* Calders et al. (2015b) monitored the timing of recurring seasonal dynamics through the plant area index (PAI). TLS was shown to **have the potential to study seasonal dynamics not only as a function of time, but also as a function of canopy height**.
>* Campos et al. (2021). They outline the creation of an automated and permanent TLS measurement station, able to identify a number of short-term and long-term changes in a boreal forest.

>Use TLS to investigate relationships between environmental factors and woody plant structure.
>* TLS data and the derived QSMs of trees have been used for **mechanical modelling of the trees under critical wind speeds** (Jackson et al., 2019).
>* Van der Zande et al. (2010) combined TLS measurements with **a voxel-based light interception model** to examine the relationship between **variable light conditions** and **the distribution of leaves in 3-D space**.

* Jackson, Tobias, et al. "A new architectural perspective on wind damage in a natural forest." Frontiers in Forests and Global Change 1 (2019): 13. [https://doi.org/10.3389/ffgc.2018.00013](https://doi.org/10.3389/ffgc.2018.00013)
* Van der Zande, Dimitry, et al. "Assessment of light environment variability in broadleaved forest canopies using terrestrial laser scanning." Remote Sensing 2.6 (2010): 1564-1574. [https://doi.org/10.3390/rs2061564](https://doi.org/10.3390/rs2061564)

### 4.3 Using TLS to parameterize FSPMs

>With TLS it is possible to quickly collect such data from a large number of individuals that form a representative sample.
>* This often requires that the TLS data are first transformed into QSMs, from which the structural tree data can be computed and inferred. 
>* However, much of the required structural information can be estimated from TLS data without full QSMs, namely overall measures such as **crown dimensions** and **woody plant height**.
>* Moreover, useful information about the leaves, such as **total leaf area (Béland et  al., 2011)** and **leaf orientation (Zheng and Moskal, 2012) together with their spatial distributions**, can be estimated from TLS data.
>* Thirdly, the non-destructiveness of TLS allows for repeated measurements **over a span of time**, for example over a growth season or many years.
>* These time series can similarly be used to **validate and test the accuracy** of the dynamic modelling of woody plant growth in a given FSPM.
>* Lastly, time series data are useful for **initialization, calibration or optimization of the FSPM parameters** to make them correspond better to the observed form and function of woody plants.

>* TLS data and QSMs were similarly used by Potapov et al. (2016), where they proposed **a stochastic version of LIGNUM** for producing tree structures consistent with detailed TLS data.
>* They expanded the idea to general stochastic structure models and showed how to **generate data-based morphological tree structure clones** (Potapov et al., 2017).

* stochastic structure models

>Lastly, **a botanically correct architectural structure**, including positions of buds that flush to produce growth (Fig. 2), is preferable for starting of simulation.

## 5 Discussion

>TLS, yet currently largely limited to the **detection of static and transient patterns** between the diversity of vegetation structure and other community features (Davies and Asner, 2014; D’Urban Jackson et al., 2020).

>The availability of structural data for a wide range of species, across a wide range of habitats is key for shifting the focus of FSPMs from **a practical use** to **a more paradigmatic one**.

* Need to establish a standard.

>Zhang and DeAngelis (2020) state that although FSPMs are set up in such a way that they should be able to address many of the same questions as population-level agentbased models, **it is not yet possible to apply FSPMs at the landscape level**. It may not be even desirable to use FSPMs at that level.

* Opposite attitude?

>Of the **21 different architectural forms described by Hallé and Oldemann**, only a handful have been featured in published FSPMs (Hallé et al., 1978). However, to exchange architectural sub-models, FSPMs could be better suited to deal with input parameter values. **Many models apply a formalism [L-systems (Lindenmayer and Prusinkiewicz, 1990) in the first place]** to deal with morphological development. 

>This opens possibilities of automatic transfer and translation of architectural information. Further, **there exists a formalism to code architectural information**, **the multiscale tree graph (MTG, Godin and Caraglio, 1998)**, that can be used to transfer architectural information between FSPMs (Boudon et al., 2012).

>* Lastly, increasing the use of TLS-derived data is one way of overcoming the lack of structural forms found currently in FSPMs; however, only one published FSPM, **HELIOS, features open-source TLS integration software (Bailey, 2019)**. 
>* For FSPMs to be readily scaled up to the population level, **a dedicated TLS pipeline must become an integral part of FSPM development**.

>* **Benchmarking and comparison** have long been a shortcoming of FSPM development, as noted in several reviews (Louarn and Song, 2020; Zhang and DeAngelis, 2020).
>* Indeed, **model complexity, inconsistency between sub-model representation, varied input parameters and a lack of open-source code** has hindered a thorough evaluation of models (Table 1).
>* In the area of below-ground FSPM development. Schnepf et al. (2020) issued a call for participation for a collaborative effort to compare root FSPMs via a two-step system, Aboveground FSPMs could greatly benefit from a similar approach, and it will be important in upcoming years to **improve communication between groups** to tackle this issue.

* Schnepf, Andrea, et al. "Call for participation: collaborative benchmarking of functional-structural root architecture models. The case of root water uptake." Frontiers in Plant Science 11 (2020): 505466. [https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2020.00316](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2020.00316)

>Evers et  al. (2019) suggested guidelines for **creating mixedspecies FSPMs**, noting that any neighbourhood interactions should emerge only as a result of individuals requiring and acquiring resources in a given community, and not as an explicit process in the model. **The use of mixed-species FSPMs is a relatively recent direction of research** but the empirical observations from TLS studies of vegetation dynamics can hopefully guide model development.

## 6 Outlook and Conclusions

>* First, FSPM research already spans many disciplines, including **life sciences, computer science and mathematics**. However, effectively using FSPMs for forest communities requires coordination between **plant ecophysiologists, ecologists and evolutionary biologists**.
>* Second, efforts must be made to enhance the generality of FSPMs.
>* Third, TLS data have largely been collected for ‘tree-like’ plants. For a **comprehensive understanding of woody plant form**, TLS campaigns need to take place in a **variety of forest environments**, including tropical dry forests.