---
title: 'Paper Reading: Integrating terrestrial laser scanning with functional–structural plant models to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes of forest communities'
date: 2024-01-14
permalink: /posts/2024/01/blog-paper-001/
author_profile: true
tags:
  - Review
  - Point Cloud
  - TLS
  - FSPM
  - Forest
---

Original paper: Hannah O’Sullivan, Pasi Raumonen, Pekka Kaitaniemi, Jari Perttunen, Risto Sievänen, Integrating terrestrial laser scanning with functional–structural plant models to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes of forest communities, Annals of Botany, Volume 128, Issue 6, 2 November 2021, Pages 663–684, [https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcab120](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcab120)

This is a record of the reading process, aimed at personal learning, reading and writing practicing.

Abstract
------

>**Background:** Woody plants (trees and shrubs) play an important role in terrestrial ecosystems, but their size and longevity make them difficult subjects for traditional experiments. In the last 20 years functional–structural plant models (FSPMs) have evolved: they consider the interplay between plant modular structure, the immediate environment and internal functioning. However, **computational constraints** and **data deficiency** have long been limiting factors in a broader application of FSPMs, particularly at the scale of forest communities. Recently, **terrestrial laser scanning (TLS)**, has emerged as an invaluable tool for **capturing the 3-D structure** of forest communities, thus opening up exciting opportunities to explore and predict forest dynamics with FSPMs.

* Computational constraints and data deficiency is the limitation of FSPM.
* TLS provides the data.

>**Scope:** The potential synergies[n. 协同效应] between TLS-derived data and FSPMs have yet to be fully explored. Here, we summarize recent developments in FSPM and TLS research, with a specific focus on woody plants. We then evaluate the emerging opportunities for applying FSPMs in an ecological and evolutionary context, in light of TLS-derived data, with particular consideration of the challenges posed by scaling up from individual trees to whole forests. Finally, **we propose guidelines for incorporating TLS data into the FSPM workflow** to encourage overlap of practice amongst researchers.

* The paper provides the guidelines.

>**Conclusions:** We conclude that TLS is a feasible[adj. 可行的] tool to help shift FSPMs from an individual-level modelling technique to a community-level one. The ability to scan multiple trees, of multiple species, in a short amount of time, is paramount[adj. 首要的] to gathering the detailed structural information required for parameterizing FSPMs for forest communities. Conventional techniques, such as repeated manual forest surveys, have their limitations in explaining the driving mechanisms behind observed patterns in 3-D forest structure and dynamics. Therefore, other techniques are valuable to explore how forests might respond to environmental change. A robust synthesis[n. 综合] between TLS and FSPMs provides the opportunity to virtually explore the spatial and temporal dynamics of forest communities.

* Using TLS + FSPM to virtually explore the spatial and temporal dynamics of forest communities is feasible.



1 Introduction
------

Inspiring parts: 

>Now there is a potential game changer: a combination of terrestrial laser scanning (TLS) and highly detailed functional–structural plant models (FSPMs) that mimic actual plants (e.g. Louarn and Song, 2020) Together, they provide a pair of tools that fulfil many prerequisites for addressing challenges with research questions related to the structural dynamics of forests.

>Terrestrial laser scanning, optionally complemented with scanning from unmanned aerial vehicles, is a method that enables capturing the full 3-D structure of a forest stand with close to centimetre-level detail in a short amount of time (Liang et al., 2016; Calders et al., 2020), including the identification of individual trees and their species (Xi et al., 2020), the ground vegetation (Muumbe et al., 2021) and the topography of the terrain (Diamond et al., 2020). **Methods for collecting additional spectral information to estimate the state of various physiological processes within trees along with the structural scanning are also being developed (Junttila et al., 2021).**

* TLS

>Functional–structural plant models, in turn, are models that aim to integrate the dynamic development of 3-D plant architecture, the associated physiological functions of the plant, and the simultaneous influence of external factors present in the growth environment (Fig. 1). As they operate with the 3-D architectural form of plants and plant stands, FSPMs are suitable for exploring the effects of different constituents of structural diversity on the dynamic behaviour of ecosystems. However, the applicability of FSPMs has so far been **limited, much due to the amount of required data and high computational demands of the models**; hence the existing models typically cover the spatial extent of just a few tree individuals (Sievänen et  al., 2008; Zhang and DeAngelis 2020). On the other hand, one of the former limitations in the development of FSPMs, the availability of structural data for the construction and validation of models, is now changing as FSPMs are suited to directly utilize data provided by TLS, and use it to develop models that explore long-term dynamic processes within trees and stands (Sievänen et al., 2018).

* FSPM

>In this review, we will focus on recent developments of TLS and FSPMs, evaluate their current capabilities in data collection and modelling capacity, and evaluate the current and anticipated future applicability of these techniques in solving ecological and evolutionary questions when used in combination. 
>* In the first of the following three sections we will address the impact of plant architecture on vegetation modelling from the individual plant level to the forest level and the impacts of forest evolution. 
>* In the second section we will explore FSPMs and their three different sub-models: (1) physiological, (2) environmental and (3) architectural. 
>* In the third section we will evaluate the realm of TLS and the benefits that this field has to scale up FSPMs from an individual-level modelling paradigm[n. 范式] to a community-level modelling paradigm. 
>* In the third section we also propose a potential TLS to FSPM workflow, evaluating the advantages and disadvantages of data collection and software involved. 
>* Lastly, we discuss the current and future synergies between TLS and FSPM for modelling forest communities.



2 Models of indivisual woody plant structure and function
------

>Tree form and function have been studied using various hypotheses on how the extension growth, space-filling by the crown and thickening of already existing woody axes and root growth and the assimilation yield are related (West et al., 1999; Pałubicki et al., 2019).

>Regular scaling between woody axes and growing shoots or leaves has been observed and explained by several theories/models (Shinozaki et al., 1964; West et al., 2009).

* Shinozaki K, Yoda K, Hozumi K, et al. A quantitative analysis of plant form-the pipe model theory: I. Basic analyses[J]. Japanese Journal of ecology, 1964, 14(3): 97-105, [https://doi.org/10.18960/seitai.14.3_97](https://doi.org/10.18960/seitai.14.3_97)

>The parameter values of the scaling relationships vary with growing conditions and with tree crowns (Bentley et al., 2013).

>Approaches have also been used in the investigation of woody plant form and function:
>* A carbon–nitrogen balance (Valentine and Mäkelä, 2012).
>* Photosynthesis (Peltoniemi et al., 2012).
>* Transport of carbohydrates within the crown (Nikinmaa et al., 2013).
>* Rules can be defined by self-organization in branch growth (Pałubicki et al., 2009).
>* The crown development actually follows resource optimization (Givnish, 1984; Mäkelä et al., 2008; Sterck and Schieving, 2011; Franklin et al., 2020).

* May need to be known.

> One important area of active research is the accurate estimation of above-ground biomass (AGB) in forests globally, especially in the context of rapidly changing environments (Brienen et al., 2015).

>Formalized **tree allometric models** have been widely used to estimate carbon stocks and balance in forests (Chave et al., 2005, 2014).

* AGB is important.

### 2.1 Models of forest communities

> Individual woody plant structure determines forest community structure, but this is itself determined by the structure of neighbouring woody plants.

>Models without 3-D structural variation will not capture within- and between-plant microenvironments, therefore losing information regarding fine-scale patterns of form and function in heterogeneous environments.

>It is important to investigate and evaluate **the relative 3-D structural contributions of individuals in forest communities** and how these ultimately impact vegetation assembly and dynamics (Zhang and DeAngelis, 2020).

### 2.2 Evolutionary models

...

3 General features of FSPMs
------

>A good sample of previous research into FSPMs and related topics can be found in special issues of 
>* New Phytologist 166 (3), 2005; 
>* Functional Plant Biology 35, 2008; 
>* Annals of Botany 101 (8), 2008, 107 (5), 2011, 108 (6), 2011, 114 (4), 2014; 121 (5), 2018 and 126 (4), 2020; 
>* Ecological Modelling 290 (1–2), 2014.

>Table 1 shows a sample of FSPMs applied for simulation of growth of woody plants.

>Some models include roots but **only as a passive part of the plant**. There are numerous functional–structural models of root systems (Barczi et al., 2018; Schnepf et al., 2018) but none of them have been linked to the models listed here.

>Notable examples of such software include 
>* AmapSim (Barczi et al., 2018), 
>* GroIMP (Hemmerling et al., 2008), 
>* Virtual Laboratory/L-studio (http://www.algorithmicbotany.org/virtual_laboratory/; Prusinkiewicz, 2000)
>* OpenAlea/OpenAleaLab (https://team.inria.fr/virtualplants/software/; Pradal et al., 2008).

<div class="widget widget-SingleSection widget-instance-OUP_ViewLarge">
    <div content-id="T1" class="table-modal table-full-width-wrap">
        <div class="table-wrap standard-table">
            <div class="table-wrap-title" id="T1" data-id="T1">
                <div class="caption caption-id-" id="caption-2584">
                    <p class="chapter-para">Table 1. An overview of FSPMs that simulate dynamic growth of woody plant species. In addition to the publications, information about the models on the site <a class="link link-uri openInAnotherWindow" href="https://www.quantitative-plant.org" target="_blank">www.quantitative-plant.org</a> has been utilized. N.i., no information available; UML, Unified modelling language.</p>
                </div>
            </div>
            <div class="table-overflow">
                <table role="table" aria-labelledby="label-2584" aria-describedby="caption-2584">
                    <thead>
                        <tr>
                            <th>Model</th>
                            <th>Species</th>
                            <th>Time step/time range</th>
                            <th>Parameter input</th>
                            <th>Multi-plant simulation?</th>
                            <th>Programming language/software</th>
                            <th>Open-source</th>
                            <th>Purpose/comment</th>
                            <th>Citation</th>
                        </tr>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <!-- 添加数据 -->
                        <tr>
                            <td>ECOPHYS</td>
                            <td>Poplar</td>
                            <td>Hour/several years</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>Yes</td>
                            <td>C++</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>Disentangling growth factors</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0085"></span>Host <em>et al</em>., 1996, <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0086"></span>2008)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>GreenLab</td>
                            <td>Generic/beech, Mongolian pine</td>
                            <td>Can choose/decades</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived/Stat. fitting</td>
                            <td>Yes</td>
                            <td>Matlab, Java, Cpp, Scilab</td>
                            <td>Upon request, freeware</td>
                            <td>Resource capture, plant architecture</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0042"></span>Cournède <em>et al.</em>, 2008; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0107"></span>Letort <em>et al.</em>, 2008; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0204"></span>Wang <em>et al.</em>, 2012)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>GroIMP (Beech)</td>
                            <td>Generic/beech</td>
                            <td>Year/decades</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>Yes</td>
                            <td>GroIMP, XL (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0097"></span>Kniemeyer and Kurth, 2008)</td>
                            <td>Yes</td>
                            <td>Demonstration of software</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0080"></span>Hemmerling <em>et al.</em>, 2008)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>IMapple</td>
                            <td>Apple tree</td>
                            <td>Hour/decades</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>Yes</td>
                            <td>C#</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>Horticulture</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0094"></span>Kang <em>et al.</em>, 2016)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>LIGNUM</td>
                            <td>Pine, maple, poplar/generic</td>
                            <td>Year or growth cycle/decades</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>Yes</td>
                            <td>C++, L+C<sup>c</sup> (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0199"></span>Vos <em>et al.</em>, 2007)</td>
                            <td>Upon request, GitHub</td>
                            <td>Study of crown development</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0148"></span>Perttunen 2001; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0175"></span>Sievänen <em>et al.</em>, 2008; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0115"></span>Lu <em>et al.</em>, 2011)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>L-Peach</td>
                            <td>Peach tree</td>
                            <td>~1 d/several years</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>Focus is one tree</td>
                            <td>L-studio (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0158"></span>Prusinkiewicz, 2000)</td>
                            <td>Upon request</td>
                            <td>Horticulture</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0002"></span>Allen <em>et al.</em>, 2005; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0113"></span>Lopez <em>et al.</em>, 2008; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0177"></span>Da Silva <em>et al.</em>, 2014)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>Macadamia model</td>
                            <td>Macadamia tree</td>
                            <td>Day/growing season</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>No</td>
                            <td>L-studio (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0158"></span>Prusinkiewicz, 2000), L + C (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0199"></span>Vos <em>et al.</em>, 2007)</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>Horticulture, proof of concept</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0005"></span>Auzmendi and Hanan 2020)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>MAppleT</td>
                            <td>Apple tree</td>
                            <td>~1 d/several years</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>Focus is one tree</td>
                            <td>L-Py (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0018"></span>Boudon <em>et al.</em>, 2012), OpenAlea (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0155"></span>Pradal <em>et al.</em>, 2008)</td>
                            <td>Yes</td>
                            <td>Horticulture</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0040"></span>Costes <em>et al.</em>, 2008)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>QualiTree</td>
                            <td>Peach (fruit trees)</td>
                            <td>Day</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>Yes (canopies as ellipsoids)</td>
                            <td>UML (object technologies)</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>Horticulture, fruit development</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0106"></span>Lescourret <em>et al.</em>, 2011; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0131"></span>Mirás-Avalos <em>et al.</em>, 2011)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>Radiata pine</td>
                            <td><em>Pinus radiata</em></td>
                            <td>Month/several years</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>No</td>
                            <td>Basic</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>Silvicultural decisions</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0064"></span>Fernández <em>et al.</em>, 2011)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>Sterck model</td>
                            <td>Generic deciduous</td>
                            <td>Day/decades</td>
                            <td>Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>No</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>Ecological–evolutionary problems</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0184"></span>Sterck <em>et al.</em>, 2005; <span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0182"></span>Sterck and Schieving 2007)</td>
                        </tr>
                        <tr>
                            <td>V-Mango</td>
                            <td>Mango tree</td>
                            <td>Day/several years</td>
                            <td>Stat. fitting/Biologically derived</td>
                            <td>No</td>
                            <td>L-Py (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0018"></span>Boudon <em>et al.</em>, 2012), OpenAlea (<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0155"></span>Pradal <em>et al.</em>, 2008)</td>
                            <td>N.i.</td>
                            <td>Horticulture</td>
                            <td>(<span class="xrefLink" id="jumplink-CIT0019"></span>Boudon <em>et al.</em>, 2020)</td>
                        </tr>
                    </tbody>
                </table>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

>FSPMs always feature three main components or sub-models: 
>* a physiological model, 
>* an environmental model, 
>* a structural model.

>Each sub-model (environmental, structural and physiological) must be evaluated in turn to ascertain trade-offs between reality, generality and simplicity at larger spatial and temporal scales.

### 3.1 Physiological sub-models

>The growth and development of woody plants can be split into two categories of physiological processes:
>* the ‘fast processes’ of **photosynthesis and respiration**,
>* the ‘slow process’ of **carbon allocation**.
>Carbon is assimilated through photosynthesis and allocated either towards new growth or maintenance, whilst carbon losses occur through respiration and senescence.

>**Photosynthesis** represented in FSPMs:
>* implicit models (Mäkelä and Hari, 1986),
>* empirical models (Le Roux et  al., 2001),
>* biochemical models, notably the Farquhar–von Caemmerer–Berry (FvCB) model for C3 photosynthesis (Farquhar et al., 1980; von Caemmerer and Farquhar, 1981), which has been scaled up for whole canopies in Medlyn et al. (2003).

>* Most FSPMs include a carbon allocation model based on the **pipe model theory (PMT)** proposed by Shinozaki et  al. (1964) over half a century ago (Godin, 2000; Le Roux et al., 2001; Lehnebach et al., 2018).
>* Many of its assumptions are outdated.
>* **As an alternative**, the authors suggest an additional model step not included in the PMT, which robustly quantifies foliage and sapwood partitioning regardless of species, age or stand condition (Lehnebach et al, 2018).

* Romain Lehnebach, Robert Beyer, Véronique Letort, Patrick Heuret, The pipe model theory half a century on: a review, Annals of Botany, Volume 121, Issue 5, 18 April 2018, Pages 773–795, [https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcx194](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcx194)
* A correction has been published: Annals of Botany, Volume 121, Issue 5, 18 April 2018, Page 1105, [https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcy031](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcy031)
* A correction has been published: Annals of Botany, Volume 121, Issue 7, 8 June 2018, Page 1427, [https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcy044](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcy044)

### 3.2 Environmental sub-models

>Light conditions are fundamental to understanding how individuals optimize form and function within their respective communities.

>Most methods of light simulation involve computing how much **photosynthetically active radiation (PAR)** is intercepted or absorbed by plant structural elements.
> To speed up radiation calculations, spatial discretization method has been used, such as
>* the method of voxel space (Li et al., 2018), 
>* techniques based on Monte Carlo sampling in path tracing (Cieslak et al., 2008), 
>* shadow propagation (Pałubicki et al., 2009).

>it has become possible to **model detailed absorption, transmission and reflectance for the full light spectrum** using **ray-tracing models** (Henke and Buck-Sorlin, 2017).

>The idea of **reverse ray-tracing** is to change the point of view from the radiation source to the entities themselves. Thus, the rays from every element are traced to the source, which ensures that each element is sampled properly and the errors are bounded. This approach has been used in a number of static FSPMs, including 
>* Helios (Bailey, 2018, 2019),
>* and the FSPM generation platform GroIMP (Kniemeyer and Kurth, 2008; Hemmerling et  al., 2008).

### 3.3 Architectural sub-models

>One of the most widely known and commonly used methods of representing the 3-D structure of woody plants is through Lindenmayer systems, otherwise known as L-systems (Prusinkiewicz, 2000).

>Parameterizing L-systems in an informative way **requires many structural parameters**, which were difficult, if not impossible, to attain **until the recent application of TLS** technology to forest communities.

4 The realm of TLS
------

>In recent years, TLS has emerged as a revolutionary tool for measuring above-ground 3-D tree architecture and forest structure (Malhi et al., 2018; Disney, 2019; Calders et al., 2020).

>Despite the promises and potential, the application of TLS to questions in forest ecology and evolution is still in its early days.

>In a recent review, Malhi et al. (2018) outline a number of areas suitable for testing and extending ecological theory on tree form and function in the context of TLS, including **seed dispersal, structural mechanics and resource distribution**.

* Malhi Yadvinder, Jackson Tobias, Patrick Bentley Lisa, Lau Alvaro, Shenkin Alexander, Herold Martin, Calders Kim, Bartholomeus Harm and Disney Mathias I. 2018 New perspectives on the ecology of tree structure and tree communities through terrestrial laser scanningInterface Focus. 8: 20170052.[http://doi.org/10.1098/rsfs.2017.0052]http://doi.org/10.1098/rsfs.2017.0052

>It is also noteworthy that allometric models can be refined towards more flexible functional models using the type of data that is available from TLS (Kaitaniemi et al., 2020; Kaitaniemi and Lintunen, 2021).

>* Alternatively, quantitative structural models (QSMs), which are a hierarchical collection of cylinders (Fig. 4), can be used to compute an array of detailed structural tree metrics, including AGB.
>* There are published and freely available methods to reconstruct QSMs from TLS data; these include
    >* TreeQSM (Raumonen et  al., 2013; Calders et  al., 2015a; Raumonen, 2020), 
    >* SimpleTree (Hackenberg et  al., 2015), SimpleTree is currently known as SimpleForest and it is a plugin for CompuTree.
    >* AdTree (Du et  al., 2019) and CompuTree (Piboule et  al., 2013).

>Differentiating between individual trees remains a key challenge when working with scans containing multiple trees.

>There are at least two open-source software options available that tackle this issue in different ways. 
>* Firstly there is **treeseg (Burt et al., 2018) and 3dforest (Trochta et al., 2017)**, both developed with **C++**, which use a number of standard point cloud processing techniques; 
>* and secondly there is **LidR (Roussel et al., 2020)**, written in the **R** environment, intended for use with airborne LiDAR, but easily applied to TLS.
>* However, **due to the popularity of the R language in biological sciences compared with C++**, **LidR** has the added benefit of accessibility.

* Burt A, Disney M, Calders K. Extracting individual trees from lidar point clouds using treeseg. Methods Ecol Evol. 2019; 10: 438–445. [https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13121](https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13121)
* Trochta J, Krůček M, Vrška T, Král K (2017) 3D Forest: An application for descriptions of three-dimensional forest structures using terrestrial LiDAR. PLoS ONE 12(5): e0176871. [https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0176871](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0176871)
* Roussel J R, Auty D, Coops N C, et al. lidR: An R package for analysis of Airborne Laser Scanning (ALS) data. Remote Sensing of Environment, 2020, 251: 112061.[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2020.112061](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2020.112061)

>Methods for separating leaf and wood fall largely into two groups: **geometric-based separation** and **intensity-based separation**.
>* Intensity-based methods: does not perform well in general, may still be useful for classification as one of the information sources (X. Zhu et al., 2018).
>* Geometry-based methods: many approaches available
    >* TLSeparation is an open-source Python library offering custom workflows and automated scripts (Vicari et al., 2019). 
    >* This software performs with a 90 % accuracy for separating leaf and wood in field TLS data, which is a beneficial step towards efficient TLS data processing of large forest scans.
    >* There are other geometric-based published methods with similar accuracies (Wang et al., 2018, 2020; Moorthy et al., 2020).

### 4.1 Species identification

>Any ability to automatically identify species across large areas would greatly improve the potential to apply FSPMs to larger ecological questions.
>* Othmani et al. (2013) used bark texture to identify five species from a sample size of 75 individuals using a random forest classification with an accuracy of 85 %.
>* Barmpoutis et al. (2018) classified four species of Caatinga trees using the fast-marching method for tree skeletonization, subsequently classifying skeletons with descriptors that account for a combination of dynamic, appearance and noise parameters.[the sample size (15 individual trees) is too low]
>* Using QSMs to obtain structural features and machine learning for classification.
    >*  Åkerblom et al. (2017) obtained an average classification accuracy of >93 % in a single-species forest plot, with lower accuracy found in mixed-species plots.
    >* A more recent study by Terryn et al. (2020) expanded on this work.
    >* The authors find that the greatest factor contributing to classification success is **canopy class**.

### 4.2 TLS in studies of vegetation dynamics




