---
layout: archive
title: 'Paper Reading: Integrating terrestrial laser scanning with functional–structural plant models to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes of forest communities'
date: 2024-01-14
permalink: /posts/2024/01/blog-paper-1/
tags:
  - Review
  - Point Cloud
  - TLS
  - FSPM
  - Forest
---

This is a record of learning process.

Original paper: [Hannah O’Sullivan, Pasi Raumonen, Pekka Kaitaniemi, Jari Perttunen, Risto Sievänen, Integrating terrestrial laser scanning with functional–structural plant models to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes of forest communities, Annals of Botany, Volume 128, Issue 6, 2 November 2021, Pages 663–684](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcab120)

Abstract
------

>**Background:** Woody plants (trees and shrubs) play an important role in terrestrial ecosystems, but their size and longevity make them difficult subjects for traditional experiments. In the last 20 years functional–structural plant models (FSPMs) have evolved: they consider the interplay between plant modular structure, the immediate environment and internal functioning. However, **computational constraints** and **data deficiency** have long been limiting factors in a broader application of FSPMs, particularly at the scale of forest communities. Recently, **terrestrial laser scanning (TLS)**, has emerged as an invaluable tool for **capturing the 3-D structure** of forest communities, thus **opening up exciting opportunities to explore and predict forest dynamics with FSPMs**.

* Computational constraints and data deficiency is the limitation of FSPM.
* TLS provides the data.
* What is the limitation of TLS?

>**Scope:** The potential **synergies[n. 协同效应]** between TLS-derived data and FSPMs have yet to be fully explored. Here, we summarize recent developments in FSPM and TLS research, with a specific focus on woody plants. We then evaluate the emerging opportunities for applying FSPMs in an ecological and evolutionary context, in light of TLS-derived data, with particular consideration of the challenges posed by scaling up from individual trees to whole forests. Finally, **we propose guidelines for incorporating TLS data into the FSPM workflow** to encourage overlap of practice amongst researchers.

* The paper provides the guidelines.

>**Conclusions:** We conclude that TLS is a **feasible[adj. 可行的]** tool to help shift FSPMs from an individual-level modelling technique to a community-level one. The ability to scan multiple trees, of multiple species, in a short amount of time, is **paramount[adj. 首要的]** to gathering the detailed structural information required for parameterizing FSPMs for forest communities. Conventional techniques, such as repeated manual forest surveys, have their limitations in explaining the driving mechanisms behind observed patterns in 3-D forest structure and dynamics. Therefore, other techniques are valuable to explore how forests might respond to environmental change. A robust **synthesis[n. 综合]** between TLS and FSPMs provides the opportunity to virtually explore the spatial and temporal dynamics of forest communities.

* Using TLS + FSPM to virtually explore the spatial and temporal dynamics of forest communities is feasible.



Introduction
------



