---
title: 'Paper Reading: (2024) Functional–Structural Plant Model “GreenLab”: A State-of-the-Art Review'
date: 2024-03-30
permalink: /posts/2024/03/blog-paper-003/
author_profile: true
tags:
  - FSPM
  - Plant Science
---

Original paper: Xiujuan Wang, Jing Hua, Mengzhen Kang, Haoyu Wang, Philippe Reffye. Functional–Structural Plant Model “GreenLab”: A State-of-the-Art Review. Plant Phenomics. 2024;6:0118. [DOI:10.34133/plantphenomics.0118](https://doi.org/10.34133/plantphenomics.0118)

This is a record of the reading process, aimed at personal learning, reading and writing practicing.

- [Abstract](#abstract)
- [1 Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2 The Developmental History of the GreenLab Model](#2-the-developmental-history-of-the-greenlab-model)
- [3 The GreenLab Model](#3-the-greenlab-model)
- [3.1 Concepts and assumptions](#31-concepts-and-assumptions)
- [3.2 Modeling plant development and growth](#32-modeling-plant-development-and-growth)
- [3.3 A botanical automaton to simulate the development](#33-a-botanical-automaton-to-simulate-the-development)
- [3.4 Modeling biomass production and partitioning](#34-modeling-biomass-production-and-partitioning)
- [3.5 Model parameter estimation](#35-model-parameter-estimation)
- [4 Applications of the GreenLab Model](#4-applications-of-the-greenlab-model)
  - [4.1 Modeling of field crops](#41-modeling-of-field-crops)
  - [4.2 Modeling of horticultural crops](#42-modeling-of-horticultural-crops)
  - [4.3 Modeling of herbaceous plants with inflorescences](#43-modeling-of-herbaceous-plants-with-inflorescences)
  - [4.4 Modeling of trees](#44-modeling-of-trees)
- [5 Analyses of Model Behaviors](#5-analyses-of-model-behaviors)
- [6 Software](#6-software)
- [7 Perspectives](#7-perspectives)
  - [7.1 Combing with plant phenotyping for crop breeding](#71-combing-with-plant-phenotyping-for-crop-breeding)
  - [7.2 Combing with multi-level models for evaluating crop adaptation and yield prediction](#72-combing-with-multi-level-models-for-evaluating-crop-adaptation-and-yield-prediction)
  - [7.3 Combing with AI methods to produce simulated data](#73-combing-with-ai-methods-to-produce-simulated-data)
- [8 Conclusions](#8-conclusions)

Abstract
------

* GreenLab is an organ-level model that can describe the intrinsic[adj. 内在的] growth and development patterns of plants based on mathematical expressions without considering the influence of environmental factors, and then simulate the growth and development of plants in expressing plant plasticity[n. 可塑性] under different environmental conditions.
* The distinctive feature of GreenLab lies in its ability to **compute model source–sink parameters affecting biomass production and allocation** based on measured plant data.
* This paper reviews the development history, the basic concepts, main theories, characteristics, and applications of the GreenLab model.
* Additionally, we introduce the software tools that implement the GreenLab model.
* Last, we discuss the perspectives and directions for the GreenLab model’s future development.

## 1 Introduction


## 2 The Developmental History of the GreenLab Model


## 3 The GreenLab Model

## 3.1 Concepts and assumptions

## 3.2 Modeling plant development and growth

## 3.3 A botanical automaton to simulate the development

## 3.4 Modeling biomass production and partitioning

## 3.5 Model parameter estimation


## 4 Applications of the GreenLab Model

### 4.1 Modeling of field crops

### 4.2 Modeling of horticultural crops


### 4.3 Modeling of herbaceous plants with inflorescences


### 4.4 Modeling of trees


## 5 Analyses of Model Behaviors

## 6 Software

## 7 Perspectives


### 7.1 Combing with plant phenotyping for crop breeding

### 7.2 Combing with multi-level models for evaluating crop adaptation and yield prediction

### 7.3 Combing with AI methods to produce simulated data

## 8 Conclusions


